---
layout: publication
type: confint
year: 2011

title: "MOBINET: Mobility Management Across Different Wireless Sensor Networks"
authors: Damien ROTH, Julien MONTAVONT, Thomas NOEL
localisation: "IEEE WCNC 2011, Cancún, Mexique, 28 - 31 mars 2011"


link: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=5779156
---

Although mobility management within a network of wireless sensors is a relatively new
subject, we envision that a mobile sensor will move through different networks. However,
it is very likely that the routing protocol supported in a visited network is different
from the one supported by the mobile sensor. In a convergecast communication model, it
would suffice for mobile sensors to broadcast its messages into the visited network to
have them forwarded to the sink. Though, this can lead to duplication of messages and
therefore increase the network traffic in the visited network. In this article, we
propose Mobinet whose objective is to enable mobile sensors to detect surrounding
sensors in the visited network through passive listening in order to select one of them
to transmit messages. We particularly focus on the energy consumption of the mobile
sensors and consequently introduce various listening processes to limit the extra energy
consumption resulting from the detection of surrounding sensors. Mobinet has been
evaluated by simulation. Simulation results show the benefits of Mobinet in terms of
message delivery and a lower energy consumption through the listening processes. They
also highlight guidelines for future research.
